README.md, before:

# Agri-Gaia Platform Deployment

## Overview

![Overview of the Deployment Process](docs/deployment-process.png)

## Prerequisites

### Install Deploy Keys

**Note**: This step is only required if you're not using the [public GitHub repositories](https://github.com/hsos-ai-lab) of the Agri-Gaia project.

From a remote machine with the GitLab and GitHub deploy keys already in use, copy the required SSH keys to the new platform host:

```bash
scp -i ~/.ssh/agri-gaia-keypair/id_ed25519 -r \
  root@remote:/root/.ssh/agri-gaia \
  root@host:/root/.ssh
```

You should see the following directories with public and private keys inside root's `/root/.ssh` directory:

```text
/root/.ssh/agri-gaia
├── backend
│   ├── id_ed25519
│   └── id_ed25519.pub
├── frontend
│   ├── id_ed25519
│   └── id_ed25519.pub
└── platform
    ├── id_ed25519
    └── id_ed25519.pub
```

### Clone this Repository

Clone the contents of this repository into `/opt/agri-gaia/deploy`:

```bash
AG_SOURCE_DIR=/opt/agri-gaia \
  ; mkdir -p "${AG_SOURCE_DIR}" \
  && cd "${AG_SOURCE_DIR}" \
  && git clone https://github.com/hsos-ai-lab/agri-gaia-platform-deployment.git deploy \
  && cd deploy
```

**Warning**: If you've forked this project into a private repository and want to [manage multiple instances](#managing-multiple-instances), you'll have to clone the private repositroy using SSH and a deploy key. This is necessary to avoid `git pull` to hang while fetching updates to this repository on a remote host due to password authentication.

## Create Deployment Configuration

Run the following command to create a deployment specific `.env` file by answering the prompts presented to you:

```bash
./setup-env.sh
```

Also take a look at the [example `.env`](scripts/.env.example) file.

### Setup the Host

Run the following command to install Docker and various other utility programs needed for deployment:

```bash
./setup-host.sh
```

This script will also install the NVIDIA Contaier Toolkit if a compatible GPU is detected.

## Place Secrets

The Agri-Gaia platform needs files that contain secrets such as the `keystore.jks` for the EDC (Eclipse Dataspace Connector). Create the directory

```text
/opt/agri-gaia/secrets
```

and place the secrets files that are described in the platform repository in this directory. The deployment process will find them there and include them into the platform.

At this point in time the `AG_SOURCE_DIR` should contain the following three directories:

```text
/opt/agri-gaia/
├── deploy
└── secrets
```

## Run `deploy.sh`

Deploy the Agri-Gaia platfrom with the confguration from your `.env` file using the following command:

```bash
# Usage: ./deploy.sh [<AG_GIT_BRANCH_PLATFROM>] [<AG_VOLUMES_TO_REMOVE>]
./deploy.sh
```

This command will execute `./scripts/deploy.sh` with two optional parameters acting as overrides for `AG_GIT_BRANCH_PLATFORM` and `AG_VOLUMES_TO_REMOVE` inside a `screen` session named `<id>.ag-deploy`. You can attach your terminal to that screen session by running the following command:

```bash
screen -r <id>

# or if only one screen session is running
screen -r
```

To list all active screen sessions use `screen -ls`. To detach from a screen session hit `Ctrl+A` follwed by `D`.

## Managing Multiple Instances

If multiple instances of the Agri-Gaia platform are running on different hosts, redeployment of the platform can be automated:

1. For each instance, add the following JSON object to the root object in `instances.json`:

    ```json
    {
      "<name>": {
        "host": "<AG_PROJECT_BASE_URL of instance>",
        "ip": "<host ip>",
        "port": <SSH port of host>,
        "user": "<SSH user on host>"
      }
    }
    ```

2. Make sure your local user can access each host via the _same_ keypair using `ssh`. You might have installed that keypair in `~/.ssh/agri-gaia-keypair` or a different subdirectory.

3. For private deployment repo only: Make sure the remote host can pull from the Platform Deployment's private git repository via SSH. To achieve this, register the SSH public key of the platform repository as a deploy key of the Platform Deployment's repository. After that, add the following to the _remote host's_ `/root/.ssh/config` file:

    ```bash
    set -a
    source scripts/.env
    cat >> /root/.ssh/config <<EOL
    Host agri-gaia-platform-deployment.${AG_GIT_BASE_URL}
          HostName ${AG_GIT_BASE_URL}
          User git
          IdentityFile /root/.ssh/agri-gaia/platform/id_ed25519
          IdentitiesOnly yes
    EOL
    set +a
    ```

4. Run the re-deploy script with your local (non-privileged) user:

    ```bash
    ./redeploy-instances.sh \
      -b <git_branch> \
      [-f <instances_file>] \
      [-t <targets>] \
      [-v <volumes_to_remove>] \
      [-i <identity_file>]
    ```

    * If you would like to re-deploy only a subset of instances from `instances.json`, use the `-t` option and specify a **comma separated** list of instance names without spaces.
    * If you would like to remove Docker Volumes on the remote before re-deploying, use the `-v` option and specify a **comma separated** list of volume names without spaces as shown by `docker volume ls`.

    The following code snipped illustrates the usage of `redeploy-instances.sh` by re-deploying the platform on `dev` and `testing` instances from the `development` branch while removing the `agri_gaia_model-training` and `agri_gaia_cvat-logs` volumes:

    ```bash
    ./redeploy-instances.sh \
      -b development \
      -f instances.json \
      -t dev,testing \
      -v agri_gaia_model-training,agri_gaia_cvat-logs \
      -i ~/.ssh/agri-gaia/platform/id_ed25519
    ```

    Please note that the identity file specified by `-i` is used to connect from you local machine to the host system you want to deploy the platform to.

Commit message:

Initial commit for secrets rework.

README.md, after:

# Agri-Gaia Platform Deployment

## Overview

![Overview of the Deployment Process](docs/deployment-process.png)

## Prerequisites

### Install Deploy Keys

**Note**: This step is only required if you're not using the [public GitHub repositories](https://github.com/hsos-ai-lab) of the Agri-Gaia project.

From a remote machine with the GitLab and GitHub deploy keys already in use, copy the required SSH keys to the new platform host:

```bash
scp -i ~/.ssh/agri-gaia-keypair/id_ed25519 -r \
  root@remote:/root/.ssh/agri-gaia \
  root@host:/root/.ssh
```

You should see the following directories with public and private keys inside root's `/root/.ssh` directory:

```text
/root/.ssh/agri-gaia
├── backend
│   ├── id_ed25519
│   └── id_ed25519.pub
├── frontend
│   ├── id_ed25519
│   └── id_ed25519.pub
└── platform
    ├── id_ed25519
    └── id_ed25519.pub
```

### Clone this Repository

Clone the contents of this repository into `/opt/agri-gaia/deploy`:

```bash
AG_SOURCE_DIR=/opt/agri-gaia \
  ; mkdir -p "${AG_SOURCE_DIR}" \
  && cd "${AG_SOURCE_DIR}" \
  && git clone https://github.com/hsos-ai-lab/agri-gaia-platform-deployment.git deploy \
  && cd deploy
```

**Warning**: If you've forked this project into a private repository and want to [manage multiple instances](#managing-multiple-instances), you'll have to clone the private repositroy using SSH and a deploy key. This is necessary to avoid `git pull` to hang while fetching updates to this repository on a remote host due to password authentication.

## Create Deployment Configuration

Run the following command to create a deployment specific `.env` file by answering the prompts presented to you:

```bash
./setup-env.sh
```

Also take a look at the [example `.env`](scripts/.env.example) file.

### Setup the Host

Run the following command to install Docker and various other utility programs needed for deployment:

```bash
./setup-host.sh
```

This script will also install the NVIDIA Contaier Toolkit if a compatible GPU is detected.

## Place Secrets

The Agri-Gaia platform needs files that contain secrets such as the `keystore.jks` for the EDC (Eclipse Dataspace Connector). Create the directory

```text
/opt/agri-gaia/secrets
```

and place the secrets files that are described in the platform repository in this directory. The deployment process will find them there and include them into the platform.

**Optional**: If you plan to use already issued wildcard TLS certificates (`AG_SSL_MODE=issued`) and don't want to create your own private fork of the `agri-gaia-platform` repository, create the subdirectory `/opt/agri-gaia/secrets/certs/issued` and place your `.crt` und `.key` files into that directory. The filenames can be arbitrary, as the deployment process will read the `AG_PROJECT_BASE_URL` from your custom deployment `.env` file.

At this point in time the `AG_SOURCE_DIR` should contain the following three directories with `secrets/certs/*` being optional (see above):

```text
/opt/agri-gaia/
├── deploy
└── secrets
    └── certs
        └── issued
```

## Run `deploy.sh`

Deploy the Agri-Gaia platfrom with the confguration from your `.env` file using the following command:

```bash
# Usage: ./deploy.sh [<AG_GIT_BRANCH_PLATFROM>] [<AG_VOLUMES_TO_REMOVE>]
./deploy.sh
```

This command will execute `./scripts/deploy.sh` with two optional parameters acting as overrides for `AG_GIT_BRANCH_PLATFORM` and `AG_VOLUMES_TO_REMOVE` inside a `screen` session named `<id>.ag-deploy`. You can attach your terminal to that screen session by running the following command:

```bash
screen -r <id>

# or if only one screen session is running
screen -r
```

To list all active screen sessions use `screen -ls`. To detach from a screen session hit `Ctrl+A` follwed by `D`.

## Managing Multiple Instances

If multiple instances of the Agri-Gaia platform are running on different hosts, redeployment of the platform can be automated:

1. For each instance, add the following JSON object to the root object in `instances.json`:

    ```json
    {
      "<name>": {
        "host": "<AG_PROJECT_BASE_URL of instance>",
        "ip": "<host ip>",
        "port": <SSH port of host>,
        "user": "<SSH user on host>"
      }
    }
    ```

2. Make sure your local user can access each host via the _same_ keypair using `ssh`. You might have installed that keypair in `~/.ssh/agri-gaia-keypair` or a different subdirectory.

3. For private deployment repo only: Make sure the remote host can pull from the Platform Deployment's private git repository via SSH. To achieve this, register the SSH public key of the platform repository as a deploy key of the Platform Deployment's repository. After that, add the following to the _remote host's_ `/root/.ssh/config` file:

    ```bash
    set -a
    source scripts/.env
    cat >> /root/.ssh/config <<EOL
    Host agri-gaia-platform-deployment.${AG_GIT_BASE_URL}
          HostName ${AG_GIT_BASE_URL}
          User git
          IdentityFile /root/.ssh/agri-gaia/platform/id_ed25519
          IdentitiesOnly yes
    EOL
    set +a
    ```

4. Run the re-deploy script with your local (non-privileged) user:

    ```bash
    ./redeploy-instances.sh \
      -b <git_branch> \
      [-f <instances_file>] \
      [-t <targets>] \
      [-v <volumes_to_remove>] \
      [-i <identity_file>]
    ```

    * If you would like to re-deploy only a subset of instances from `instances.json`, use the `-t` option and specify a **comma separated** list of instance names without spaces.
    * If you would like to remove Docker Volumes on the remote before re-deploying, use the `-v` option and specify a **comma separated** list of volume names without spaces as shown by `docker volume ls`.

    The following code snipped illustrates the usage of `redeploy-instances.sh` by re-deploying the platform on `dev` and `testing` instances from the `development` branch while removing the `agri_gaia_model-training` and `agri_gaia_cvat-logs` volumes:

    ```bash
    ./redeploy-instances.sh \
      -b development \
      -f instances.json \
      -t dev,testing \
      -v agri_gaia_model-training,agri_gaia_cvat-logs \
      -i ~/.ssh/agri-gaia/platform/id_ed25519
    ```

    Please note that the identity file specified by `-i` is used to connect from you local machine to the host system you want to deploy the platform to.
